README.markdown, before:

MerbGlobal README
=================

A plugin for the Merb framework providing Localization (L10n) and 
Internationalization (i18n) support.
 
merb\_global will have the following feature set:

 * support for model (content) localization
    - by default, localization stored in the database
        - with DataMapper   (targeted 0.1)
        - with ActiveRecord (targeted 0.2)
        - with Sequel ORM   
    - and, with a choice of strategies in each case:
        - single-table  (c.f. globalize RoR plugin)
        
                |title   |varchar(100)|
                |title_de|varchar(100)|
                |title_fr|varchar(100)|
                
        - joined-table for unlimited localizations (c.f. Symfony PHP)
    - or, alternatively localizations can be stored outside of the domain 
      model, UI Strings.
        
 * support for view (UI String) localization
    - choice of providers (po, yaml, database)
        
            Merb::Plugins.config[:merb_global] = {
              #:message_provider => "po",   # default
              :message_provider => 'yaml'
              #:message_provider => active_record
              #:message_provider => data_mapper
              #:message_provider => sequel
            }
            
    - for JRuby, wrapper allowing use of .properties files.
    
 * Extract, update for PO/POT files
 * Currency, Date and Language Helpers
        - stored either in the database, or for JRuby, wrappers around
        built-in functionality provided by java.util.Currency, java.util.Locale
        
 * support for localization of Merb generated code
 * support for non-English Inflectors.

Developer ReadMe
----------------

**REQUEST** : Your development support is very much appreciated. Please 
contact us below if you're interested in lending a hand with the development 
of this project.

Getting the Source
------------------

Performing a git clone on either of the following repositories will get you 
the latest source:

    git clone git://github.com/myabc/merb_global.git
    git clone git://gitorious.org/merb_global/mainline.git (on gitorious)

The following additional mirrors are available:

    git://repo.or.cz/merb_global.git
    http://repo.or.cz/r/merb_global.git

Installation and Setup
----------------------

	Dependencies:
	sudo gem install gettext
	
	Installing MerbGlobal
    rake gem
    sudo gem install pkg/merb_global-0.0.1.gem

Configuration options
---------------------

MerbGlobal is possible to configure with:

    Merb::Plugins.config[:merb_global] = {
        :message_provider => 'gettext'
        ...
     }

in init.rb or using plugins.yml file:

    :merb_global:
        :message_provider: gettext
        ...

Configuration options:
 
 * :message_provider
   
   What message provider we want to use.

   Values: gettext, yaml, sequel, active\_record, data\_mapper
   Default: gettext

 * :date_provider
 
   What date provider we want to use.
 
   Values: fork
   Default: fork

 * :numeric_providers

   What numeric provider we want to use.

   Values: fork
   Default: fork

 * :flat

   Are we running merb-flat or normal merb?

   Values: true/false
   Default: false

 * :localedir

   Define directory where translations are stored.

   If :flat is set to true than MerbGlobal will search in #{Merb.root}+'locale'. If :flat is false than in #{Merb.root}+:localedir. When :flat is false and :localedir configuration is not defined the default will be #{Merb.root}+'app/locale'.

 * :gettext => :domain
   
   Name of the text domain. Which is basically name of the GetText MO file without .mo extension.

   Default: merbapp

##Configuration examples

Follwing configuraiton in plugins.yml:

    :merb_global:
        :provider:  gettext
        :flat:      false
        :localedir: locale
	:gettext:
	    :domain:    messages

will make MerbGlobal to search translations in following places:

    #{Merb.root}/locale/#{language}/LC_MESSAGES/messages.mo
    #{Merb.root}/locale/#{language}/messages.mo

Where #{language} is string which defines language such as cs\_CZ, en\_GB or just cs, en.

No configuration will look at:

    #{Merb.root}/app/locale/#{language}/LC_MESSAGES/merbapp.mo
    #{Merb.root}/app/locale/#{language}/merbapp.mo

Licensing and Copyright
-----------------------

MerbGlobal is released under an **MIT License**. Copyright information, as 
well as a copy of the License may be found in the LICENSE file.

Support
-------

**WARNING REPEATED** : MerbGlobal at an early stage of its development. 
You should not use this code unless you're reasonably secure with both Ruby 
and Merb. That said, _please do get involved!_

Your best sources for support are currently the wiki, IRC or our mailing
list:

 * **MerbGlobal Wiki**:         <http://trac.ikonoklastik.com/merb_global/>
 * **MerbGlobal mailing list**: <http://groups.google.com/group/merb_global>
 * **MerbGlobal homepage**: _coming soon_
 * Contact the developers directly:
    - <alex@alexcolesportfolio.com> | myabc on #datamapper, #merb IRC
    - <uzytkownik2@gmail.com> | <xmpp:uzytkownik@jid.pl>

Commit message:

Making merb-cache work with merb_global  - LocaleStore a strategy store that encodes the current locale in the key  - global_eager_cache method to the controller that eager caches the page for all the supported locales  + the specs for all this...

README.markdown, after:

MerbGlobal README
=================

A plugin for the Merb framework providing Localization (L10n) and 
Internationalization (i18n) support.
 
merb\_global will have the following feature set:

 * support for model (content) localization
    - by default, localization stored in the database
        - with DataMapper   (targeted 0.1)
        - with ActiveRecord (targeted 0.2)
        - with Sequel ORM   
    - and, with a choice of strategies in each case:
        - single-table  (c.f. globalize RoR plugin)
        
                |title   |varchar(100)|
                |title_de|varchar(100)|
                |title_fr|varchar(100)|
                
        - joined-table for unlimited localizations (c.f. Symfony PHP)
    - or, alternatively localizations can be stored outside of the domain 
      model, UI Strings.
        
 * support for view (UI String) localization
    - choice of providers (po, yaml, database)
        
            Merb::Plugins.config[:merb_global] = {
              #:message_provider => "po",   # default
              :message_provider => 'yaml'
              #:message_provider => active_record
              #:message_provider => data_mapper
              #:message_provider => sequel
            }
            
    - for JRuby, wrapper allowing use of .properties files.
    
 * Extract, update for PO/POT files
 * Currency, Date and Language Helpers
        - stored either in the database, or for JRuby, wrappers around
        built-in functionality provided by java.util.Currency, java.util.Locale
        
 * support for localization of Merb generated code
 * support for non-English Inflectors.

Developer ReadMe
----------------

**REQUEST** : Your development support is very much appreciated. Please 
contact us below if you're interested in lending a hand with the development 
of this project.

Getting the Source
------------------

Performing a git clone on either of the following repositories will get you 
the latest source:

    git clone git://github.com/myabc/merb_global.git
    git clone git://gitorious.org/merb_global/mainline.git (on gitorious)

The following additional mirrors are available:

    git://repo.or.cz/merb_global.git
    http://repo.or.cz/r/merb_global.git

Installation and Setup
----------------------

	Dependencies:
	sudo gem install gettext
	
	Installing MerbGlobal
    rake gem
    sudo gem install pkg/merb_global-0.0.1.gem

Configuration options
---------------------

MerbGlobal is possible to configure with:

    Merb::Plugins.config[:merb_global] = {
        :message_provider => 'gettext'
        ...
     }

in init.rb or using plugins.yml file:

    :merb_global:
        :message_provider: gettext
        ...

Configuration options:
 
 * :message_provider
   
   What message provider we want to use.

   Values: gettext, yaml, sequel, active\_record, data\_mapper
   Default: gettext

 * :date_provider
 
   What date provider we want to use.
 
   Values: fork
   Default: fork

 * :numeric_providers

   What numeric provider we want to use.

   Values: fork
   Default: fork

 * :flat

   Are we running merb-flat or normal merb?

   Values: true/false
   Default: false

 * :localedir

   Define directory where translations are stored.

   If :flat is set to true than MerbGlobal will search in #{Merb.root}+'locale'. If :flat is false than in #{Merb.root}+:localedir. When :flat is false and :localedir configuration is not defined the default will be #{Merb.root}+'app/locale'.

 * :gettext => :domain
   
   Name of the text domain. Which is basically name of the GetText MO file without .mo extension.

   Default: merbapp

##Configuration examples

Follwing configuraiton in plugins.yml:

    :merb_global:
        :provider:  gettext
        :flat:      false
        :localedir: locale
	:gettext:
	    :domain:    messages

will make MerbGlobal to search translations in following places:

    #{Merb.root}/locale/#{language}/LC_MESSAGES/messages.mo
    #{Merb.root}/locale/#{language}/messages.mo

Where #{language} is string which defines language such as cs\_CZ, en\_GB or just cs, en.

No configuration will look at:

    #{Merb.root}/app/locale/#{language}/LC_MESSAGES/merbapp.mo
    #{Merb.root}/app/locale/#{language}/merbapp.mo
    
    
Integration with merb-cache
---------------------------

There is an additional strategy store available for merb-cache Merb::Global::Cache::LocaleStore that stores the locale together with the key.

Example setting it up:
<code>
  Merb::Cache.setup do
    register(:page_file_store, Merb::Cache::FileStore, :dir => Merb.root / 'public' / 'page_cache')
    register(:page_locale_store, Merb::Global::Cache::LocaleStore[`:page_file_store`])
    register(:page_store, Merb::Cache[:page_locale_store])
  end
</code>

The main page will be cached in `public/page_cache/en/index.html` when the locale is 'en' and in `public/page_cache/ja/index.html` for the japanese translation.


Additionally to that there is a `global_eager_cache` that eager_caches all different locales (instead of only updating the cache for one language and letting the other locales be stale.)


Licensing and Copyright
-----------------------

MerbGlobal is released under an **MIT License**. Copyright information, as 
well as a copy of the License may be found in the LICENSE file.

Support
-------

**WARNING REPEATED** : MerbGlobal at an early stage of its development. 
You should not use this code unless you're reasonably secure with both Ruby 
and Merb. That said, _please do get involved!_

Your best sources for support are currently the wiki, IRC or our mailing
list:

 * **MerbGlobal Wiki**:         <http://trac.ikonoklastik.com/merb_global/>
 * **MerbGlobal mailing list**: <http://groups.google.com/group/merb_global>
 * **MerbGlobal homepage**: _coming soon_
 * Contact the developers directly:
    - <alex@alexcolesportfolio.com> | myabc on #datamapper, #merb IRC
    - <uzytkownik2@gmail.com> | <xmpp:uzytkownik@jid.pl>
